README.md, before:

# Stimulus Autocomplete controller

This is a tiny stimulus controller (1.5kB gzipped) to make a selection from a
list of results fetched from the server.

![Demo](https://media.giphy.com/media/5dYbYLVX4fSbbdyN84/giphy.gif)

## Installation

`yarn add stimulus-autocomplete`

## Usage

Load your stimulus application as usual and the register the autocomplete
controller with it:

```javascript 
import { Application } from 'stimulus'
import { definitionsFromContext } from 'stimulus/webpack-helpers'
import { Autocomplete } from 'stimulus-autocomplete'

const application = Application.start()

const context = require.context('controllers', true, /.js$/)
application.load(definitionsFromContext(context))

application.register('autocomplete', Autocomplete)
```

To use the autocomplete, you need some markup as this:

```html
<div data-controller="autocomplete" data-autocomplete-url="/birds/search">
  <input type="text" data-autocomplete-target="input"/>
  <input type="hidden" name="bird_id" data-autocomplete-target="hidden"/>
  <ul class="list-group" data-autocomplete-target="results"></ul>
</div>
```

The component makes a request to the `data-autocomplete-url` to fetch results for
the contents of the input field. The server must answer with an html fragment:

```html
<li class="list-group-item" role="option" data-autocomplete-value="1">Blackbird</li>
<li class="list-group-item" role="option" data-autocomplete-value="2">Bluebird</li>
<li class="list-group-item" role="option" data-autocomplete-value="3">Mockingbird</li>
```
Note: class `list-group` on `<ul>` and `list-group-item` on <li> is required to apply the same css as displayed in the gif above.

Items can be included that are not selectable, such as help text or delimiters using `aria-disabled` attribute:

```html
<li role="option" aria-disabled="true">Start typing to search...</li>
```

If the controller has a `hidden` target, that field will be updated with the value
of the selected option. Otherwise, the search text field will be updated.

## Events

* `autocomplete.change` fires when the users selects a new value from the autocomplete
field. The event `detail` contains the `value` and `textValue` properties of the
selected result.
* `loadstart` fires before the autocomplete fetches the results from the server.
* `load` fires when results have been successfully loaded.
* `error` fires when there's an error fetching the results.
* `loadend` fires when the request for results ends, successfully or not.
* `toggle` fires when the results element is shown or hidden.

## Optional parameters

* `min-length` set the minimum number of charaters required to make an autocomplete request.

## Examples

There's a minimal example in the `examples` directory. To run it:

```
$ cd examples
$ yarn install
$ yarn run start
```

## Credits

Heavily inspired on [github's autocomplete element](https://github.com/github/auto-complete-element).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at <https://github.com/afcapel/stimulus-autocomplete>.  This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for  collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the  Contributor Covenant code of conduct.

## License

This package is available as open source under the terms of the MIT License.

Commit message:

Document process to cut a new release

README.md, after:

# Stimulus Autocomplete controller

This is a tiny stimulus controller (1.5kB gzipped) to make a selection from a
list of results fetched from the server.

![Demo](https://media.giphy.com/media/5dYbYLVX4fSbbdyN84/giphy.gif)

## Installation

`yarn add stimulus-autocomplete`

## Usage

Load your stimulus application as usual and the register the autocomplete
controller with it:

```javascript 
import { Application } from 'stimulus'
import { definitionsFromContext } from 'stimulus/webpack-helpers'
import { Autocomplete } from 'stimulus-autocomplete'

const application = Application.start()

const context = require.context('controllers', true, /.js$/)
application.load(definitionsFromContext(context))

application.register('autocomplete', Autocomplete)
```

To use the autocomplete, you need some markup as this:

```html
<div data-controller="autocomplete" data-autocomplete-url="/birds/search">
  <input type="text" data-autocomplete-target="input"/>
  <input type="hidden" name="bird_id" data-autocomplete-target="hidden"/>
  <ul class="list-group" data-autocomplete-target="results"></ul>
</div>
```

The component makes a request to the `data-autocomplete-url` to fetch results for
the contents of the input field. The server must answer with an html fragment:

```html
<li class="list-group-item" role="option" data-autocomplete-value="1">Blackbird</li>
<li class="list-group-item" role="option" data-autocomplete-value="2">Bluebird</li>
<li class="list-group-item" role="option" data-autocomplete-value="3">Mockingbird</li>
```
Note: class `list-group` on `<ul>` and `list-group-item` on <li> is required to apply the same css as displayed in the gif above.

Items can be included that are not selectable, such as help text or delimiters using `aria-disabled` attribute:

```html
<li role="option" aria-disabled="true">Start typing to search...</li>
```

If the controller has a `hidden` target, that field will be updated with the value
of the selected option. Otherwise, the search text field will be updated.

## Events

* `autocomplete.change` fires when the users selects a new value from the autocomplete
field. The event `detail` contains the `value` and `textValue` properties of the
selected result.
* `loadstart` fires before the autocomplete fetches the results from the server.
* `load` fires when results have been successfully loaded.
* `error` fires when there's an error fetching the results.
* `loadend` fires when the request for results ends, successfully or not.
* `toggle` fires when the results element is shown or hidden.

## Optional parameters

* `min-length` set the minimum number of charaters required to make an autocomplete request.

## Examples

There's a minimal example in the `examples` directory. To run it:

```
$ cd examples
$ yarn install
$ yarn run start
```

## Credits

Heavily inspired on [github's autocomplete element](https://github.com/github/auto-complete-element).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at <https://github.com/afcapel/stimulus-autocomplete>.  This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for  collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the  Contributor Covenant code of conduct.

## Release a new version

To release a new version follow these steps:

1. Update the version number in `package.json`. Try to follow
semantic versioning guidelines as much as possible.

2. Build the package with `npm run build`

3. Publish the package to npmjs.com with `npm publish`

## License

This package is available as open source under the terms of the MIT License.
